[THUNDER CLAP]
[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Well,
welcome to "Beyond Belief."
We have JJ and Desiree
Hurtak with us,
social scientists,
archeologists, cosmologists,
and great authors who have
researched ancient cultures
in Mexico, Egypt, South
America for more than 40 years.
JJ, how did you guys
get started in this?
>>JJ HURTAK: It
goes back, really,
to the 1970s, when I was a young
professor at the University
of California.
I had several
exceptional experiences
of seeing beings of
light, what would
be called in psychological
language archetypal energy
forms.
And so this got me started
in looking behind the scenes
to what I call the
science behind the myth.
And this took me to
different parts of the world.
With Desiree's help, we
were able to catalog,
with permission of scientists
on very high levels, the story
of the origin of humanity
through the figure
of what we call the Bird Man.
>>NOORY: And,
Desiree, we're going
to talk a lot about
the Bird Man tonight.
Did JJ pull you in
on this, or were you
always interested in this?
>>DESIREE HURTAK: I
always had an interest.
That was why we really
started to work together.
Because I grew up
in Florida, and I
had seen other realms of
intelligence flying overhead.
I said, there has to be more.
So when he had his
unique experience,
I was one of the few
people that understood
what was going on in his life.
>>NOORY: Now, when you mention
Bird Man, what is that?
>>JJ HURTAK: Bird Man,
for most anthropologists,
is what is called man
covered by feathers
or the feathered
serpent, Quetzalcoatl,
as it is called in the mythology
of Central and South America.
Bird Man represents to
the Oriental cultures,
as well as to those
in other parts
of the world, a wing-like
figure that is primarily
a human being that has
extensions of wings,
like Thunderbird seen in the
Indigenous traditions of North
America, man who can fly to
space, one who represents,
really, the offspring
of the gods.
Not an extraterrestrial,
but an extra celestial,
one even beyond the
extraterrestrial.
>>DESIREE HURTAK:
But many people
have actually experienced
in their own dream state
the soaring into the heavens.
And the Indigenous
people of North America
actually feel that
the bird itself takes
our prayers and our energies
and takes them into the sky.
So it's something that's
worldwide, but also personal,
I believe.
>>NOORY: Was the Bird Man
a physically real entity?
>>JJ HURTAK: Definitely.
You see this, as I will show
in a couple of minutes, some
of the figurines presented
by different tribal groups
in North America, but
also, in stone figures
in parts of Africa
and parts of Asia.
>>DESIREE HURTAK: I
think the Bird Man
cult is most well
known in Easter Island,
a place called Rapa Nui.
And it's very interesting,
because, actually,
Easter Island went
through various stages.
They made those big moai
statues that everyone--
>>NOORY: Huge.
>>DESIREE HURTAK: Yeah, huge.
>>NOORY: I don't even
know how they moved them.
>>DESIREE HURTAK: No.
Actually, there's one large
one that they never did move,
actually, it was so big.
But usually, they're like, 6
to 20 feet, but that's a lot.
And some of them are made out of
basalt, which is really heavy.
So that comes from the
magma of the Earth.
There's one that the
British took away with them
when they got to Easter Island.
>>NOORY: They pillaged
it, didn't they?
>>DESIREE HURTAK: Yeah.
Well, of course.
But 1868, they took it
all the way to England.
Now it's in the British Museum.
What's unique about that is
not only is it a perfect moai
statue, but on the back--
and they think it came
from a more recent era--
are Bird Man.
There's actually birds carved.
So if you ever go to the
British Museum, George,
you can actually see it there.
But the moai was
really one, we'll say,
generation of people
who made those,
and the second
generation later on,
when they were trying to
find balance and harmony
on this small little island.
It's literally 14
miles by 7 miles.
It's a small island.
You had to get
together and you had
to be able to work together.
And they actually came up
with this bird cult race.
>>JJ HURTAK: Motu Nui.
>>NOORY: You went
to Easter Island.
>>DESIREE HURTAK: Yes, we did.
>>JJ HURTAK: We did
extensive filming there.
And we saw in the
petroglyphs a similarity
with the other petroglyphs
we've seen throughout the world.
So the Bird Man represents
one of the oldest phenomena
of a superhuman being who
is connected with the gods,
or we would call the
higher creative forces.
>>NOORY: Let's take
a look at this trip.
>>JJ HURTAK: We have
here on Easter Island ahu
platform where we were told
in the original transmission
of the information that Easter
Island was part of a vast grid
system or geometry of
sacred contact areas
throughout the world.
And if we would put
together the missing
pieces of these platforms,
these statues would speak.
For they represent
the great architects,
and their eyes
looking to the heavens
is to remind us
that as we connect
the teaching of our ancestry
throughout the world
with our future in space,
our eyes will be prepared
for the coming
and the quickening
of a great civilization
of cosmic cultures.
In essence, with our
eyes, exemplifying
what these statues have
meant to the ancients,
we will be, in turn, the
custodians and guardians
of the platforms and the
temples of sacred knowledge.
Not only throughout all
parts of our worlds,
but truly in conjunction
with the star people.
We will be the first, as the
harbinger, to lift up our eyes
and expressions of greeting
to our brothers of light
from the higher worlds.
>>NOORY: JJ, were you in
awe at the moai figures when
you were there?
>>JJ HURTAK: I was.
I was, George.
Because of the size,
gargantuan statues
reaching from 12, to even
24 feet, in some instances.
When Desiree and I were there
with an archeological team,
we also used, shall we say,
wooden instruments to beat
on the back of the moai,
and some of them had sounds.
So part of our
work in musicology
is to look at the
sound structures
or the biological
signatures of these beings
that do not speak
with the mouth,
but speak with the vibration.
>>NOORY: Were they
hollow at all?
>>JJ HURTAK: Yes.
Some of them are hollow.
Indicating that
there is a, shall
we say, a language
of communication
in certain parts of the world.
We find this in Egypt
when we did the sound test
inside the Giza Plateau.
We find this also all
throughout Mexico.
In fact, we published
our work in a journal
called "Arqueología," which
is the most significant
scientific journal of NIHA, the
National Institute of History
and Anthropology,
like the Smithsonian,
governing, should we say, all
of the major archeological sites
now being probed by the
best scholars in the world.
>>NOORY: Desiree, were
you there as well?
>>DESIREE HURTAK: Yes, I was.
And actually, a lot of them
are just literally cut out
of the ground near a volcano.
So if they're hollow, it's
because it wasn't a solid rock
that they were cut from.
But it's an amazing island.
And really, I just
want to quickly say
about the Bird Man, which
was the second aspect of what
happened with the
people there, they just
had a race where once a
year, they would actually
swim to this area,
and then, they
would grab the sooty tern egg,
the first one that would come--
>>JJ HURTAK: The bird.
>>DESIREE HURTAK:
--of this bird that
would land on this rock
cropping out in the ocean,
and if they got
it, they came back,
and that man became the
Bird Man for a whole year.
He was the chief.
His whole tribe got--
>>NOORY: A real person?
>>DESIREE HURTAK: A
real person, yeah.
Well, actually,
he sent a sponsor.
It was called a hopu.
He was the strong man who
would do the race for him.
And when he came
back, he became--
>>JJ HURTAK: Tangata Manu.
>>NOORY: Why do
they face the ocean?
>>DESIREE HURTAK:
Well, actually,
some of them-- of course,
they were on platforms,
and almost all of them
were knocked down.
They think a lot of them
did not face the ocean.
Some of them might
have, but some of them
also looked inland, so that
when you looked at them
and you looked at the
ocean, you actually
had them staring back at you.
So no one really knows.
In fact, for a long
time, this island
was really decimated
by smallpox,
by people taking
the individuals that
were living there and bringing
them to Peru for slaves.
So it was a real
chaotic situation.
>>NOORY: Who knocked them down?
>>DESIREE HURTAK: Actually, we
think that either the people
did, or the early, we'll
say, religious people
that came to visit the
island, some of the priests
that came over.
>>NOORY: How would you have
knocked them down physically?
Would you use logs or something?
>>JJ HURTAK: Would have
a huge team of soldiers,
if there were
foreigners coming in,
or local people that could
be conscripted into a labor
team that would just pull them
in or to the side with ropes
or knock them over.
Some of them still remain
in their original position.
But the bottom
line here, George,
is this is the first
worldwide archetypal
symbol of men becoming
gods and gods becoming men
through the feathered
serpent symbol.
>>NOORY: Do you think
these inhabitants witnessed
something?
>>JJ HURTAK: Definitely.
Definitely.
>>NOORY: Which must have just
been overwhelming to them.
>>JJ HURTAK: Well,
we have seen this
in other parts of the world.
In fact, we went also to South
America and Central America,
talking with the shamans, the
leaders of traditional groups.
All of them suggested
that, at one time,
had been a motherland that
had sunk in the South Pacific,
and the survivors came in
boats or through island hopping
to the areas of South America
where the reestablished
themselves, creating the
pyramid as a symbol of going
above the water horizon.
And at the top of
the pyramidal symbol,
you have all of
these structures that
look like small boats
or geometries that
look like waveforms,
suggesting that there
was a cataclysmic change in
ancient times, in the Orient.
And the surviving cultures
then remanifested themselves
in the Americas.
>>DESIREE HURTAK: So when he
says pyramid, he means the ahu,
and these are platforms.
They were actually standing
on all these sacred-altar
like platforms around the
island in various places.
But there's been a
lot of, we'll say,
loss of understanding
of civilization,
even in contemporary times.
For example, if you go to
Quetzalcoatl, which was also
considered a type of bird
man or feathered serpent,
you have the pyramids
of Teotihuacan.
And they don't know
who built them.
That civilization that built
Teotihuacan is completely gone.
And even the Mexican people, the
Aztecs, the Mayans, the Toltec,
can't tell you who built that.
>>JJ HURTAK: As a
young archeologist,
I was invited to meet the former
president of Mexico, Jose Lopez
Portillo, in the
1970s and he gave me
a gift of his book
called "Quetzalcoatl."
And he said, the
mythologies that
suggest that people came from
the oceans of the Pacific
to inhabit the mainland of
Central America and Mexico.
>>DESIREE HURTAK:
Well, this is the--
one of the three in pyramids
there, and that's interesting.
I believe there's a
lot of coordination
between the Mexican
pyramids of Teotihuacan
and the Egyptian pyramids,
of course, of Giza.
But the one called the
feathered serpent we see here.
And Dr. Hurtak, even
since the 1970s, has said,
look, you see on one side,
we'll see the Quetzalcoatl,
which is the dragon
serpent, so to speak,
with the feathers around him.
But then, look, George.
You see these kind of
unusual almost magnetic bars
in between.
>>JJ HURTAK: And
at the other side,
you see what looks
like a computer
face, robotic-like face that
represents a different tier
of civilization.
So when I was doing this work
in the 1970s, it was clear to me
that, on one side of
the pyramidal construct,
you have the dinosaurs
of representations
of early civilization,
and then, you
have the bar magnets
that represent
what I consider to be the
multiple magnetic field, which
explain levitation craft
going from planet still
in the dinosaur phase
to planets working
with robotics in a modern age.
>>NOORY: How old
is that structure?
>>DESIREE HURTAK:
Again, they think
it's before, we'll say,
over 2,000 years ago.
It could be as much
as 3,000 years ago.
And again, no one knows.
Because the Olmec
civilization, which
is where you have monument 17
also looking like Quetzalcoatl,
actually never was considered
to have gone as far
as this area near Mexico City.
So no one knows.
It was completely abandoned
about the year 700 AD.
And then, the Aztecs
later on picked it up.
So again, three pyramids.
And in fact, what's
interesting about it,
and Dr. Hurtak and
I have visited,
going underneath the
Pyramid of the Sun.
There's a whole
underground chamber.
And just in 2004,
they recently found
a whole underground
chamber underneath
the feathered serpent pyramid.
Now, this goes for
300 feet underground.
>>NOORY: Well carved
out and everything?
>>DESIREE HURTAK: Well, yeah.
It took them a while
to find the entrance.
And now, they've had to
use some robots to even go
certain places.
They found 75,000 artifacts
underneath that pyramid.
>>NOORY: Why does it seem
like the ancients had
incredible knowledge, and then,
it disappeared and popped up
later?
Where did it go?
>>JJ HURTAK: We lived
in a fantastic world
of rediscovering
who we are in terms
of beings in the electromagnetic
spectrum of life.
And now, it occurs to us,
as we probe into the cosmos,
that there are other timelines
of evolution, other life forms.
And it appears that we work in
cycles of advancing and then
going through what I would call
a highly materialistic phase
where we lose our spirituality,
our concept of a living
universe.
And we fall back into
a situation of a lower
singularity and Quetzalcoatl.
And all of these sacred
areas throughout the world
with the pyramids
as constructs remind
us of those basic elemental
building blocks or geometric
forms of reaching the heavens.
And so again, we're
beginning to find in our work
with remote sensing technology
underneath parts of Mexico,
a whole underground passageways
that run in one example
under 25 different pyramids.
A corridor perfectly shaped
suggesting that, shall we say,
the forefathers of the
Aztecs had some type
of pneumatic energy tool to make
these so perfect underground.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>DESIREE HURTAK: And you
find this also in Cahokia.
We actually had an office
near Saint Louis in Missouri.
>>NOORY: I've been
there many times.
>>DESIREE HURTAK: Yeah, exactly.
That is now considered
the largest Earth
mound in North America.
It's actually taller and
bigger than the Great Pyramid
when you really have
reconstructed it.
>>NOORY: Mind boggling.
>>DESIREE HURTAK: Yeah, and they
had an amazing structure there
where probably 10,000 people
at one point lived there.
And now they found that
there was actually--
they were able to smelt copper.
What we find in all the other
Mississippi cultures around
there going down to Georgia,
going up to Minnesota,
going down as far
as Tallahassee,
you actually find copper
plates of Birdman.
It was a very popular theme.
We believe that there
was a connection.
We call it the Mayan
connection, but it's also
the Aztec connection between
Mexico and North America.
And, of course, the
concept of the Birdman
goes as far as the
Hopi and the Navajo.
>>JJ HURTAK: I brought
some small figurines here
from the Zuni and the Navajo.
This is of the Falcon.
Note the embellishments of the
face, the bird-like symbols,
and the plumes of
the top of the head.
>>NOORY: Now, is
this a guy in costume
or is this something real?
>>DESIREE HURTAK: These
were supposed to be types
of kachinas, which means
they lived on this planet,
they were on this planet--
>>JJ HURTAK: Godlike figures.
>>DESIREE HURTAK: --but
then at a certain point,
they decided this planet
had too much confusion,
and they needed to leave.
>>JJ HURTAK: They were
also time shifters.
They could-- there's
another of the hawk--
>>NOORY: Truly
looks like a bird.
>>DESIREE HURTAK:
Yeah, but they have
the arms and legs of a human.
>>JJ HURTAK: And the
third one I have too.
>>DESIREE HURTAK: This
is a beautiful one.
>>JJ HURTAK: This is the most
beautiful is that of the eagle.
You think, for example, of
the bald eagle in the United
States, you think of
the eagle on the flags
of the European countries,
of Germany, Austria, Russia--
all throughout the world
you see in the human psyche
there is this symbol
of the bird or the eye
of the hawk representing a
type of universal knowledge,
the ability to see any point
on Mother Earth from space,
the ability to translate
different dimensions.
Again, there's a whole
cosmology and sociology
built into the Birdman
and all of his plumage
which represents what
I feel the missing
key not only to the
extraterrestrial
but to what I call the
ultra or extra celestial
form of intelligent
life that comes
from a different solar system
that is able to transit
between the planets and
leave behind the knowledge
of building pyramids, creating
mathematical knowledge
of the other planetary systems,
and actually give humanity
a hope of a return visit of
beings who can, as it were,
make their way to
the higher worlds.
>>NOORY: So you believe,
though, that the Birdman
may be from some other
extraterrestrial dimension?
>>DESIREE HURTAK: Yes,
let's look at Egypt, right?
You have Horus.
But in addition, you actually
have the sons of Horus.
You also, if you look at
the solar boat, right,
and we'll say some
of the Boat of Nut,
you have everything
from reptilian forms,
you have dog-faced ones,
you have cat-faced ones--
>>NOORY: Birds.
>>DESIREE HURTAK:
--birds obviously.
And this is exactly
what we're finding
in extraterrestrial contact.
People are seeing very
unusual forms of life.
>>NOORY: What's the connection
between Birdman and Chichen
Itza.
>>JJ HURTAK: Well,
Chichen Itza, of course,
in the Yucatan Peninsula is
known for its unique pyramid
structure that is the equivalent
of a 365-day calendar cycle.
>>DESIREE HURTAK: Like Kukulkan.
>>JJ HURTAK: It's
also called Kukulkan.
But it represents
really the shadow
of the serpent that comes down
in the spring and the fall
equinox.
The staircase represents
however the human ascent
beyond the shadow-like figures
of the lower part of evolution
into the light of
the higher world.
>>NOORY: So Jay, you and
Desiree visited Chichen Itza
and found some
evidence of Birdman?
>>DESIREE HURTAK: We
see the first rays
of lightning up on the special.
Day we've passed
through the time
now of the rising, we'll say,
of the solstice sun energy.
And we're able to
energize, seeing the things
above the doorway connected with
an understanding of the higher
life, the higher vibration.
And it's here also that we
find the Temple of the Bearded
Man connected with Quetzalcoatl
but also, of course, we
represent that understanding
that the bearded ones actually
come from a higher aspect
of divine intelligence.
So there was the knowledge of
Quetzalcoatl, the Feathered
Serpent, the one who could
take the energies of the Earth,
connect it with the
serpentine energy
or the anthropic,
syntropic energy
and put the power of light upon
it with the wings of the dove,
with the wings of the eagle.
>>JJ HURTAK: So
with this in mind,
we ask you to keep in
mind the larger depiction.
The pyramids here
are stepping stones
to a much higher cosmic
order of divine teaching.
>>NOORY: How did they make that?
>>JJ HURTAK: Well,
it certainly it
took several generations
of cosmic engineers.
I'm wearing here the teaching
belt that was given to me
by the Xavante
peoples of Brazil,
one of the larger nations
because of my charity
and my educational work
with the Indigenous.
But they--
>>NOORY: And who
are the Xavante?
>>JJ HURTAK: Xavantes were one
of the larger tribes in Brazil
in the region of Mato
Grosso, South Central Brazil,
that preserved their
heritage of contact
with the star
nations, one of which
is the bearded bird people.
And the reason why
this is so important
is when I talk to the
shamans, who may be the chief,
they said, we are giving you
knowledge that you already
possess of the Golden
Egg that we see
coming from the higher worlds.
The Fiery or the Golden Egg
represents for the Indigenous,
the egg born, the
person who comes
from the higher world
who manifests new life
and new direction.
And I believe the Indigenous
people hold the key,
the missing key to how we
have to expand our cosmology
from an Earth-based
culture going simply
to an extraterrestrial
culture of mechanical machines
to something of greater
spiritual significance, which
is the extra celestial, the
beings that have the ability
to be physical and nonphysical
in the twinkling of an eye.
>>DESIREE HURTAK: And just to
take that egg one step further,
there's a legend
in India of Garuda.
And supposedly, people
were standing around
because there was this
huge egg that appeared
that came from this wise man.
His name was Sage.
And when it opened
it, it was a birdman.
>>NOORY: And that's
where we get sage, right?
He's a sage.
>>DESIREE HURTAK: Maybe.
So anyway, he was a wise man
who gave birth to this birdman.
And this birdman was
an amazing being.
So he was Garuda, and he became
the vehicle or the vessel
to bring Vishnu, which is one
of the trinity forms, Brahma,
Shiva, and Vishnu
to this planet.
So it was the vehicle used.
A birdman also in the
East symbolizes the way
of bringing the gods to Earth.
>>JJ HURTAK: Garuda in the
Sanskrit means one who speaks.
So when we were doing
archeological work in Mexico
and I was using energy
mantras of the natives
along with the biblical
languages Hebrew and Aramaic,
all of a sudden light
appeared around my body.
You're also going to
see light manifestations
around pyramidal forms, again,
when one uses sacred language.
So the missing part
of this discussion
is the acoustical physics
completely overlooked
by most anthropologists
until recent times.
These structures are not
just simple structures.
They're structures that can
convey sound, can vibrate
or magnify sound, and connect
the subtle aspects of the mind
into a higher state
of consciousness.
And this is why, for example,
Ingo Swann, in one of the books
that was done with
Russell Targ and myself,
he was from Stanford Research
Institute-- illustrated
the cover of the
book as a cosmic egg
that we were all connected with.
>>DESIREE HURTAK: So if I
can also say, the wings,
why do you have wings?
Well, wings actually not only to
fly, but they actually vibrate.
So Garuda supposedly
could even change time.
His wings were so powerful.
He could vibrate and
change realities of nature.
This is the power
of the Birdman.
We're talking about just the
form, but what can they do?
What can they-- what's
their experience?
Well, they can take
us into the heavens.
They can bring the
heavens to Earth.
This is part of their work.
>>NOORY: Where did they go?
>>JJ HURTAK: Into
the higher worlds
that are far beyond the physical
dimension of what we would call
the Galactic Base of Evolution.
>>NOORY: And why did they go?
>>JJ HURTAK: They were
there to be representatives
of the higher
evolution, the higher
management behind the scenes.
As the Greek
philosopher said, why
do the gods hide themselves?
So they don't show
themselves because they're
part of comanaging or
cocreating many interlocking
systems of life.
>>NOORY: Was the intention
always to just come and go?
>>JJ HURTAK: The intention was
to provide spiritual knowledge
or higher knowledge
so that we would
see the infinite
way of God's plan,
not that they were to
be equated with God,
but they were simply couriers
or hierarchical members
of a much larger divine family.
In the Judeo-Christian
tradition,
we would call that the Homo
Deus, The man-god figure that
would bring higher cosmic
teaching of the cosmic law
to elementary civilization
on a planet like our own
with the hope that
we would integrate
the stages of architecture, art,
music, cosmology, ultimately
with an ecumenical theology
that we were part of a much
larger family, but
we had to learn
to behave and to
balance the energy
forces in this physical form.
>>DESIREE HURTAK:
George, if you ever
go to the Los Angeles
County Museum of Art,
you will find an eagle
figure holding a bag.
He's from the Northwest Palace
of Nimrud in what's today Iraq.
And I believe that bag is
the wisdom and knowledge
that they bring.
It's very similar
to what's considered
the Quetzalcoatl figure
of Monument 19 in La Venta
from the Olmecs.
So you have this bag in
Mexico and you have someone
in Iraq carrying the same bag.
>>JJ HURTAK: The figurines as
well as the gargantuan statues
would indicate they
were different in
their anthropological makeup.
Yes, large heads that look
like spheres or heads of eggs.
>>NOORY: Are you surprised
that the Birdman is gone
or do you expect it to be gone?
>>JJ HURTAK: Well,
the Birdman also
includes the concept
of not only the eagle,
the symbol of the
executive office,
but also the concept
of the Phoenix,
of rebirth or regeneration.
So in cosmic time, which is
beyond our arbitrary space
and time, there is
a cycle of rebirth
that takes place where we
rediscover within ourselves
the power of the Phoenix of
giving ourselves genetically
the concept of rebirth.
>>NOORY: Fascinating.
>>DESIREE HURTAK:
And I'd just like
to say we have to bring
in Horus from Egypt
because he also is
considered the Falcon man.
And of course, some of
the ancient sculptures
just show him as a falcon
but more of the modern ones
or more recent times
of ancient Egypt
show him as being able to walk
and to literally just show
his wings.
So Horus was a very
important aspect
of the Birdman in
ancient Egypt, as well as
Thoth, who was the ibis bird.
He was the scribe who
wrote down everything.
And a third bird in Egypt, which
most people ignore, was Maat.
She was a woman.
I don't want to
just keep saying man
because there was
also a birdwoman.
And she had her own wings.
And in addition to that,
there was the Ba, the soul,
which had the opposite.
It had the body of the bird
but the face and head of a man.
And it was our soul when
we left this planet.
So I think the Birdman is
still here, is still watching.
According to the Egyptians,
the BA is always with us
and can be used by us to ascend.
>>NOORY: We've got
some pictures of Horus.
I want you to explain what
we're looking at in some
of the temple walls in Egypt.
>>JJ HURTAK: This is the
stylized form of Horus
representing his
multidimensionality on three
levels, of working with past,
present, future, reality,
Horus, of course, is
the conveyor of wisdom.
>>NOORY: Are they all Horus?
>>JJ HURTAK: All Horus.
Some would refer to Horus
the Elder, Horus the Younger,
and Horus that which
is to come or manifest.
We have various stylized
forms of Egyptian art
where Horus appears as Herihor.
>>NOORY: And he's
got that bird head.
>>JJ HURTAK: He's
connected with-- yes,
and this is again,
what I feel is
so important in the
new anthropology
and cosmology is that in all of
the major Egyptian depictions,
you have the human body
but the head is different.
>>NOORY: Yes.
>>JJ HURTAK: And so conceivably
in the future meeting
with cosmic
intelligence there would
be amongst the varieties those
who have engineered themselves
so they have a bird-like
face although they
have a human body.
Here we have another
situation where
Horus is beholding knowledge
that is being presented to him.
This is, of course, through
the "Book of Breathings"
or certain sounds,
certain vibrations that
allow the figure on the
left and the right side
to take and use this
knowledge for temple building,
for science of the human race.
A third example is the
beholding of knowledge
principally in the governing.
Horus represents to the
Egyptian priests, the knowledge
of sacred geometry,
of how the universe is
built upon these geometries.
The eye of Horus represents
on the right side
the sun on the
left side the moon.
But the eye also is divided,
if you look carefully
at the eye of Horus, into
certain mathematical parts.
One represents one fourth, one
half, one eighth, et cetera,
et cetera till you get to 1/64.
And we have found that this
is a way that the ancients saw
the genetic code.
There were 64 basic figures
in the genetic code.
>>NOORY: How do we know,
JJ, that Horus is not
wearing a mask?
>>JJ HURTAK: Well,
again, I can only
say the representation
that have come down
through honest artisans and
anthropologists would all
agree that this is something
very atypical of what
normal artists
would put together
in terms of the kingship line.
>>DESIREE HURTAK: And why
would we ever limit creation
to just the adamic form?
Although, I have
to say that Horus
was represented of
life while Osiris
was representative of death.
So very, very interesting.
But I also want to add the
similarity between Egypt
and Mexico, Horus
actually fought with Set.
Now, Set was a dog-faced one.
Interesting, you go
to Mexico and you
find Quetzalcoatl who had a
brother, a kind of twin, called
Xolotl.
And he also was a dog-faced one.
So very, very interesting that
the dog-faced ones and the,
we'll say, birdmen
really were known
on both the East and
the West and the Middle
part of this world.
>>NOORY: The tomb of Osiris,
what's the significance here?
>>JJ HURTAK: Well, Osiris
represents the father figure,
the giver of knowledge.
Really the progenitor of
Horus and the offspring
of the divine family.
And we had the
opportunity many years ago
to get permission
to do ground sensing
in Egypt in the Giza Plateau.
>>NOORY: Oh fascinating.
>>JJ HURTAK: And we
were able to locate,
because the water tables
were low at that time,
the actual tomb of Osiris,
which later was claimed by Zahi
Hawass, but it was really our
team two years before in 1997
through the use of
sound measurements
and the use of
ground penetrating
radar that located
the actual lid
of this massive tomb of Osiris.
According to Egyptian mythology,
when the tomb of Osiris
is found, Osiris who brought
music to Mother Earth,
then we would understand
the music of the heavens.
>>NOORY: So you found the tomb?
>>JJ HURTAK: We found the tomb.
Our team, known as the Joe
Schor Expedition from New York,
we found the tomb, but also
we found the underground grid
system or the portals
that apparently extend
all throughout underground
Giza, so all of the pyramids
are linked.
>>NOORY: You both toured
the tomb of Osiris.
Let's share that with our--
>>JJ HURTAK: Thank you.
>>NOORY: --viewers.
>>DESIREE HURTAK:
There probably were
all of these filled with
some sort of mummy that
was connected with the
main tomb underneath.
And so that's the main thing
that was not known in 1997
was that there was an
actual tomb underneath.
Zahi Hawass eventually
after we found
the lid was able to go down and
dig down underneath the water
and pull up the one
sarcophagus that was below.
>>JJ HURTAK: So
this is important
because we also
discovered the fact
that the Egyptians were doing
at the lower level water
hydraulics.
So we believe that they were
able to manufacture hydrogen,
and the way they were
using water hydraulics.
This is something
that the Japanese
have done in recent times.
And engineers at Stanford
Research Institute
in California have done.
That under certain
movements of water,
the water molecule
produces not H20 but--
>>DESIREE HURTAK: Yeah, HHO.
>>JJ HURTAK: --HHO.
>>DESIREE HURTAK: Or separating
the hydrogen and the oxygen.
Some of you know
this from our book.
But I think what's
really interesting is
that it's similar in
Sweden to find some
of these kind of underground
storage for the chemicals
that they are storing
and trying to get rid of.
>>JJ HURTAK: So the Egyptians
we believe use chemical switches
to create a light
source, which they
used to do all of this
underground engineering.
>>DESIREE HURTAK: And then
Asclepius, as some of you
know from the Nag
Hammadi library, which
was found down closer
to Luxor and Karnak,
it says that at one time this
was the area of the gods.
>>JJ HURTAK: Full
House of the gods.
>>DESIREE HURTAK: And then later
on it became a place of tomb.
So I think our guide
today was correct
that there were things even
pre what we know today.
So that they're
even the sarcophagi
were probably not for all
the gods or all the pharaohs
who they thought were
gods but for something
before that, and then
were turned into tombs.
>>JJ HURTAK: So we look at
the tomb behind where we're
talking, that's down 75 feet.
So how do the Egyptians
get these massive tomb-like
structures down to
such low heights?
>>NOORY: How did they do that?
>>JJ HURTAK: Well,
there's various theories.
One being that they were helped
by higher cosmic intelligence
that gave them the
energy tools to make
these very precise areas where
they could drop the tombs
and bring them underground.
This is explained--
>>NOORY: Why the
pyramids were made.
>>JJ HURTAK: That's right.
The book that we published
a couple of years
ago called "Giza's Industrial
Complex," entertains
with Desiree had said.
They had the ability to engineer
through water hydraulics,
through hydrogen
production, through the use
of all sorts of collection
and storage of solar energy
through solar batteries.
So we point this
out in great depth.
And, of course, this is one of
many of the film documentaries
that we did underground in 1997.
So underneath where
we were talking
in this recent
documentation there
is still a deeper water system
that runs throughout Egypt.
>>DESIREE HURTAK:
And it's really
right in alignment between the
Sphinx and the Middle Pyramid.
And we believe that,
of course, there's
much more cavities and
underground tunnels
just like they recently found
at the Feathered Serpent
in Mexico.
They only found it in 2004.
This place has been
frequented since the Aztecs.
They just found it now.
>>JJ HURTAK: So
Horus, the, Birdman,
was connected also
with the Sphinx.
The Sphinx represents
the human face.
On stone, it
represents the ability
to command what the Sphinx
represents historically,
the power of light or
fire, solar energy.
So this is a depiction
of what we believe
to be the opening
stage of finding
other rooms inside
the Great Pyramid
and understanding of
alternative energy
the ancient Egyptians
used, and possibly
an extraterrestrial race
that would be connected
with the historic
Egyptian culture that
will be returning to the
scene of the human experiment.
Mind you, our
Christian Bible begins
with the Exodus out of Egypt.
Why does Egypt come first?
Why are there lamentation over
the body of Jacob and Joseph
in Egypt if there wasn't some
significance to the vibration,
the sound wave?
So again, acoustical
physics, the use of music
harmonics, the understanding
of energy alternatives.
All of this is
important in rescuing
what I will call the missing
pieces of the Egyptian story.
>>DESIREE HURTAK: And one other
missing piece is the astronomy.
And there was on
Hatshepsut's temple,
actually in the sky
when they're looking
at the different
archeological studies,
there is both the Birdman
and, we'll say, also the bull.
Now, what's
interesting about that
is if you take this to Ezekiel,
because I know a lot of people
are interested in how does this
relate to the Middle East--
>>JJ HURTAK: The Old
Testament prophet Ezekiel.
>>DESIREE HURTAK:
--you find you have
four heads that were part
of the vehicle of Ezekiel
in Ezekiel 1:10.
You have the bird.
You have the bull, which can
also be considered the ox.
You also have the
angelic form, and you
have a man-like form, correct?
>>JJ HURTAK: You have the lion.
>>DESIREE HURTAK:
And the lion, yes.
>>NOORY: Do you think
Horus and Thoth might
have been extraterrestrials?
>>JJ HURTAK: Definitely
because of the whole totemism
built around their names
and their traditions.
The work that--
>>NOORY: From Mars maybe?
>>JJ HURTAK: Well, we
found pyramids on Mars
through remote viewing
experiments back in the '70s.
So yes, Mars would be
a candidate because it
lines up with the
Arabic Al-Qahira,
which is the name for the
Giza area of ancient Egypt.
Why would the Egyptians
have an emphasis on Mars
or the spacious one in
connection with the place
where the pyramids were as the
nexus point of civilization?
There's a higher
astronomy that has
to be brought into play
with planetary science.
>>DESIREE HURTAK: Right,
so we don't really
think that they're
from Mars, but we think
that they frequented Mars.
>>NOORY: And something
happened on Mars
a long time ago. what was it?
>>JJ HURTAK: Civilization was
wiped out either by a comet
or--
>>NOORY: Or they came here.
>>JJ HURTAK: Well, the Zulus
feel the descendants of that
conflict on Mars made their way
through what they call in Zulu
[NON-ENGLISH] which is close
to the Hebrew word merkava,
for vehicle of light from that
planet to this planet where
the story of evolution
begins again.
>>NOORY: Truly
remarkable, isn't it?
>>JJ HURTAK: It's
remarkable if you
can look at the Bible
in terms of the Bible
within a Bible in terms
of the inner mathematics
and music vibrations
of teaching,
it is clear that the Bible
has many levels of meaning,
one of which deals with
the eagle-faced ones,
the lion-faced ones, and the
others who represent some
of the other
experimental cultures
the ancient scholars,
sages, and rabbis
referred to as the Nephilim,
the fallen experimenters.
Which is why they look forward
to the deliverance from bondage
out of Egypt from a
higher person that
was in the Christian
tradition, the New
Testament in the work of Clement
and other interpreters the Deus
or the Homo Deus, the
man-god figure that
was beyond the Birdman.
One who was a prince of peace.
One who was a deliverer
from enslavement cycles.
One who was also able to
show the temple of spirit as
opposed to the temple of stone
to be the quintessence of life.
>>NOORY: Why do you believe
the Birdman came here?
>>DESIREE HURTAK: Well,
he is the angelic power.
He is that energy that
is able to take us
from this reality, at least
in terms of our thoughts,
to the higher realities.
If we look at some of
the ancient teachings,
again, if you look at Garuda
connected with Vishnu,
he was the vehicle
that brought Vishnu.
Who was Vishnu?
He was the one that tried
to bring order here.
Any time this planet
is out of order,
then Vishnu is said to come
to create that balance.
It's the same also we mentioned
Thoth as also the ibis bird,
it looks also like a
birdman in that sense.
He was working with
Maat, which was
the woman who brought harmony.
So all these energies are
really from the heavens seeking
to bring balance to the Earth.
The Earth is a dualistic system.
All of the birdmen
practically around the world
are talking and showing that
it is a dualistic system.
So what do we do with it?
Do we just give up or
do we work with those
of the positive figures of light
and move into that reality?
That's what I think
they're here to show us.
I don't think they left.
I think they're always here
if we simply call upon them
like the angelic powers.
>>JJ HURTAK: And
we're being prepared
for psychological and
sociological shock
as we began to understand who
are these other cosmic races.
>>NOORY: And maybe change?
>>JJ HURTAK: They
have the ability
to shift or change
their facial features,
but their historic
precedents, which
is to say if our ancestors could
accept biological diversity
in the universe, why can't we
at this age of the 21st century?
>>NOORY: Were there
ever birdwomen?
>>DESIREE HURTAK: Absolutely.
In fact, there's a
Russian folklore, Gamayun
who actually is also similar.
She brings wisdom.
She brings knowledge.
She brings prophecy
to the people.
This is part of the
Slavic tradition.
It's an amazing
phenomenon that is
similar to that which
is around the world,
you also have Gamayun.
>>JJ HURTAK: The same cognate.
And in the concept of Garuda,
the bird that brings knowledge,
you have also the
avatar or the master
who rides the bird such as
in the Sanskrit tradition
that which was called the
Vajrakilaya, which was the man
or the face that had three
faces representing the Oriental
tradition of the divine law, the
divine body, the etheric body,
which is the Eastern equivalent
of the Trinity concept
and the ancient Near East.
So there is a common
tradition of both the male
and the female
figure growing into,
shall we say, a
higher awareness stage
that the spiritual dimension
has to come in to balance
as it were the imbalances.
>>DESIREE HURTAK: Now, I
have to say also the Greeks
and the Romans they always had
a certain type of hierarchy.
They had something
called the Harpys.
And those were also
feminine birdwomen
who would come and take things.
Sometimes they would even
take the soul of the dead.
So these were not so positive.
But anyway, if we go back
to the Slavic, of course,
then you have a more
positive aspect.
Also the same in the New
Zealand Maori culture,
you also have positive
energy of birdwomen.
>>NOORY: How do people
track your work?
>>JJ HURTAK: They can track
us through our website,
keysofenoch.org.
They can track us
to our documentaries
that we are doing, that we're
posting On Keys of Enoch TV.
They can track us through
the various conferences
that we have done throughout
the world over the last 40
to 50 years.
More importantly, things
we are about to publish,
which is the whole
musical scheme
inside the Great Pyramid.
We were the first to do this.
Very sophisticated
musical instruments
we found that the music
of the pyramids in Egypt
matched the music of the
pyramids in Mexico, Yucatan.
Also, the music of
the pyramids in China,
which is to show that
there is thousands of years
before the last chronology
was put together by Europeans,
there was a
consistency in music,
mathematics, and geometric
form of a world culture
that circumnavigated
Mother Earth.
We are at the point, George,
of rediscovering who we really
are as a cosmic civilization.
>>NOORY: It's exciting.
JJ and Desiree, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>JJ HURTAK: Thank you, George.
>>NOORY: They do a
marvelous job studying
the ancient history
of this planet
so we could learn
about our future.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."
[AUDIO LOGO]